--- 
layout: post
title: What is an anti-mormon?
summary: When I was seventeen a boy from our rival high school asked Will—our drum major—to pass on a message to me.
category: blog
comments: true
tags: personal, life, lgbtq, homophobia, friendship
description: Sometimes I follow a trail of videos on YouTube and find one that takes me back to times or events in my past that I had all but forgotten. This video reminded me of an episode from high school that makes me sad
---
When I was twenty-one, I began to take my religion serious. It was the most serious that I had ever felt about what I believed. I felt pride knowing that I was a member of the only true church on the face of all the earth.

My feelings had been amplified by the close association that I had with my roommate-Ralph Santana. He had served a mission in Honduras, and had become the epitome of what a young mormon adult should be. He was clean-cut; he was polite, and confident; he was bold, but not overbearing, and I wanted to be like him. 

In one year I read Mormon Doctrine by Bruce R McConckie, Volumes 1-3 of Doctrines of Salvation by Joseph Fielding Smith, all seven Lectures on Faith by Joseph Smith, and all seven volumes of History of The Church as well as the Discourses of Brigham Young. I couldn't get enough. I was reading anything and everything that I could find related to mormon history, doctrine, policy or comentary. 

It was a wonderful time of discovery for me, and I didn't question anything that I read. In fact, I remember feeling as though I had been made privy to a secret that put me in the inner circle of an elite group when I read JFS' teaching that Blacks had been less valiant in the pre-existance and therefore had been born with dark skin (mark of cain).

I have been spending some time making a list of significant things in my past that have contributed to my faith crisis transition

## 5 - 10 years old
Watching monks share the Baghavad Gita in the train station and being afraid of the pictures because I belied that they were of the devil. 

Asking God for a sign that I would find my lost kitten, and getting an answer.

Feeling peace so profoundly that I hated to go home Sundays after church service.

Trusting in the sign of the cross—a gesture made by my mom-before falling asleep, that without it I was scared. 

## 15 - 19 years old
Having a general feeling that the most boring topic in church was Jesus' Atonement.

## 20 - 25 years old
Reading "The Mormon Murders" and feeling my testimony of the Mormon church shake more by that book than by reading Anton LaVey's Satanic Bible.

Telling Eddie "Even if God himself told me that the Mormon church was wrong, I would not leave it."

Not knowing how to answer the question "How difficult does it have to be?" by an evangelical preacher asking me why I believed that salvation was something that I had to work hard to earn. 

Feeling uneasy after going through the temple ceremony for the first time.

Trying desperately to receive a confirmation that the Book of Mormon was everything I was taught it was.

Lying to Ralph about receiving a confirmation about the Book of Mormon. 

Deciding to go on a Mission and driving to Bishop Cabrera's home at 1am to have a worthiness interview and get the process started. 

Lying about my testimony and "spiritual experiences" to people I met while on a mission. 

Realizing that other denominations were NOT an abomination nor ALL of their professors/preachers were corrupt.

Realizing that the doctrine of the Atonement was the most beautiful idea in religion. 

Walter White challenging me to list a single evidence for the Book of Mormon, and not being able to. 

Reading W. Kleon Skousen's "A Personal Search for the Meaning of the Atonement" and feeling that I had been in a state of slumber all of my life until then.

The absolute feeling of certainty that God would answer if I called during the most difficult time as a Branch President and missionary.

The tangible feeling in my chest to Gordon B. Hinkley's closing remarks in the 1997 October General Conference; "...I have a confession to make, I love you."

Feeling dishonest when saying the phrase "I know that this is the true church."

Feeling anxiety after reading Ed Decker's "The God Makers."

The loneliness of returning home from serving a mission.


## 26 - 30 years old
Being disapointed at the shallowness of my childhood friends' conversion compared to Beth and her friends*.

Believing that I was disgusting, unclean, and unworthy to associate with God because of masturbation, and promising each time that I would never do it again. 

The feeling of safety and refuge like never before the morning I decided that the views that I had learned in regards to masturbation were wrong. I was NOT disgusting.


## 31 - 35 years old
Walking out of the theatre after watching the movie "Milk" and being overcome with the feeling that I was a biggot. 

Coming to the conclusion that the images of Joseph Smith translating the Book of Mormon as are presented by the LDS Church were a type of dishonesty.

Turmoil over marrying Beth.

The peaceful feeling I had when I decided to marry Beth.


## 36 - 40 years old
Being called to serve in the Bishopric. 

Reaching the apex of a lifetime of dishonesty.

Facing all of my lies. 

Looking for traces of God in my past and not finding any. 


## 41 - 44 years old

Finding evidence of God in my past in a most insignificant experience.

Meeting Davis.

Krishna.





