# When I was twenty-one, I began to take my religion serious. It was the most serious that I had ever felt about what I believed. I felt pride knowing that I was a member of the only true church on the face of all the earth.

My feelings had been amplified by the close association that I had with my roommate-Ralph Santana. He had served a mission in Honduras, and had become the epitome of what a young mormon adult should be. He was clean-cut; he was polite, and confident; he was bold, but not overbearing, and I wanted to be like him. 

In one year I read Mormon Doctrine by Bruce R McConckie, Volumes 1-3 of Doctrines of Salvation by Joseph Fielding Smith, all seven Lectures on Faith by Joseph Smith, and all seven volumes of History of The Church as well as the Discourses of Brigham Young. I couldn't get enough. I was reading anything and everything that I could find related to mormon history, doctrine, policy or comentary. 

It was a wonderful time of discovery for me, and I didn't question anything that I read. In fact, I remember feeling as though I had been made privy to a secret that put me in the inner circle of an elite group when I read JFS' teaching that Blacks had been less valiant in the pre-existance and therefore had been born with dark skin (mark of cain).

I have been spending some time making a list of significant things in my past that have contributed to my faith ~~crisis~~ transition. These are just in list form and in no particular order of importance. I am not really wanting to comment on any of these, but I wanted to keep a list of significant events, ideas, moments etc., that feel important. 

It's interesting to see how the majority of items happened or are centered around my early to mid 20s. 

